The first Democratic president debate exposed ideological fissures within the party over how to remake the economy, fix immigration and confront big companies -- and whether the path to defeating President Donald Trump veers toward liberal solutions or hews to the middle.

The 10 candidates on stage for the first of two nights of debates generally agreed on the need for universal health care but the discussion resulted in some of the sharpest exchanges. They disagreed on whether private insurance should be abolished, with Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts insisting that private plans be replaced by Medicare for All.

“There are a lot of politicians who say, oh, it’s just not possible, we just can’t do it,” Warren said. “What they’re really telling you is they just won’t fight for it. Well, health care is a basic human right, and I will fight for basic human rights.”

The candidates also sparred over foreign policy and whether the party is focused on appealing to the right voters. Yet even with the disagreements, the candidates stayed away from direct attacks.

Warren, who is vying for leadership of the party’s progressive wing with Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, was the highest-polling candidate on stage Wednesday night and was able to stay above the fray despite some clear differences with competitors such as Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and former John Delaney, a former Maryland congressman.

The divisions will be on display again Thursday night when former Vice President Joe Biden, who is trying to steer the party on a centrist course, will be going head-to-head with Sanders and eight other candidates, including including California Senator Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana.

The clearest divide on Wednesday among the 10 candidates was on health care. Only Warren and Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York raised their hands when all were asked who would abolish private insurance plans in favor of a government-run system.

Warren, who supports Sanders’s plan to use the government’s Medicare program to provide health coverage, said insurance companies have a profit motive to raise as much as they can in premiums while not making payments and “Medicare for All solves that problem.”

