The first primary debate of the 2020 season saw cracks of daylight emerge in a Democratic field that has largely played to the progressive base, with the candidates clashing sharply over controversial policies like "Medicare-for-all" and calls to decriminalize illegal border crossings -- while taking ample shots at President Trump in the process.

Staking out the left flank of the party on stage Wednesday night in Miami were Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. -- the highest-polling candidate in the first debate batch, with Round 2 coming Thursday -- and long-shot Bill de Blasio, the New York City mayor.
They were the only candidates to raise their hands when asked who's willing to give up their private health insurance for a government option.

Warren went on to staunchly defend 2020 rival Sen. Bernie Sanders’ "Medicare-for-all" plan.

“I’m with Bernie on Medicare-for-all and let me tell you why,” she said. “I spent a big chunk of my life studying why families go broke and one of the number-one reasons is the cost of health care. Medical bills.”

Warren said those who challenge the policy are really saying "they just won't fight for it."

But the issue sparked fireworks when former Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke said he would not replace private health insurance. De Blasio interrupted to say, “private insurance is not working for tens of millions of Americans.”

Former Rep. John Delaney, D-Md., who has positioned himself as more of a centrist, scolded his rivals by saying they “should be the party that keeps what’s working and fixes what’s broken.”

“We’re supporting a bill that would have every hospital close,” Delaney said.

Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., called a single-payer health care system a "bold approach" but said she worries “about kicking half of America off their health insurance in four years, which is exactly what this bill says.”

The policy was just one wedge on stage Wednesday night. The candidates were largely unified -- as expected -- in their condemnation of Trump, with O'Rourke calling for "impeachment now" in the wake of Robert Mueller's report.

“It is the only way we can protect this country,” he said.

But O'Rourke, who was among a handful of candidates who gave some responses in Spanish, repeatedly found himself on the receiving end of swipes from rivals on stage. Former Housing Secretary Julian Castro was among those landing blows as he sought to distinguish himself from the field on the issue of immigration, perhaps gaining traction by targeting the one-time Democratic darling from Texas. And while Warren stayed center stage by hammering her myriad policy proposals and talking up the class divide, the debate production itself gained outsize attention when technical difficulties marred part of the NBC-hosted program -- forcing the moderators to cut to commercial break to resolve them when candidates couldn't hear questions as other voices were piped in over inadvertently open microphones.

Trump, from Air Force One en route to Japan, jeered the network.