Sen. Kamala Harris is the closest Democrats have to a potential consensus candidate. She doesn’t suffer from the enmity that Hillary Clinton voters have for Sen. Bernie Sanders, or that leftists hold for former Vice President Joe Biden, or that the Obama administration has for Elizabeth Warren. She’s not another white guy running to represent a diverse party. She’s got enough political experience to be a credible candidate, but not so much that she’s been on the wrong side of dozens of controversial issues.

But Harris wouldn’t be the first politician to look good on paper only to falter in the campaign. And so the question that has quietly suffused Democratic politics for the past few years has been: Can she do it? Can she perform under the lights?

Thursday night, she proved she can.

Harris won a debate over Bernie Sanders’s ideas despite Sanders standing right next to her. She looked like the heir to the Obama coalition despite the presence of Barack Obama’s vice president on the stage.

She tore into Biden’s comments about segregationists and his record on busing in a way that left him sputtering onstage, and that carried the meta-message that she’d be able to confront Trump with the same cool precision. She carefully criticized the Obama administration’s record on immigration in a way that showed she wouldn’t be hemmed in by the Democrats’ past. It was a command performance.

Harris took control of the evening early. The beginning of the debate was marked by the moderators asking Biden and Sanders questions that the candidates ignored in favor of canned statements. Harris went third.

“Do you think that Democrats have a responsibility to explain how they will pay for every proposal?” she was asked. Instead of ignoring the question to give the answer she wanted to give, she turned it back on the moderators to underscore her point. “I hear that question, but where was that question when the Republicans and Donald Trump passed a tax bill that benefits the top 1 percent and the biggest corporations?” She shot back.

About 20 minutes in, the debate devolved into an indecipherable shouting match. It was Harris’s voice that cut through the din. “America does not want a food fight, they want to know how we’re going to put food on their table,” she scolded. It’s a cheesy line, but she delivered it with authority. The rest of the candidates fell silent. The crowd cheered.

But it was in the middle of the debate that Harris changed the campaign. After Biden was confronted with a question about deportations in the Obama administration, Harris went where the other candidates had not. “This was one of the very few issues with which I disagreed with the administration,” she said, explaining that “as attorney general and the chief law officer of the state of California, I issued a directive to the sheriffs that they did not have to comply with detainers and instead should make decisions based on the best interest of public of the basis of their community. I was tracking it and saw that parents, people who had not committed a crime even by definition, were being deported.”

It was a gentle criticism of Obama, but a criticism nonetheless. And it presaged a much more direct attack to come. A few minutes later, in a discussion about Mayor Pete Buttigieg’s handling of a recent police shooting in South Bend, Indiana, Harris stopped the conversation. “As the only black person on this stage, I would like to speak on the issue of race.” Then she turned, unexpectedly, to Joe Biden.

“I do not believe you are a racist,” she said. “But” — you knew there was a but — “it was hurtful to hear you talk about the reputations of two United States senators who built their reputations and career on the segregation of race in this country. And it was not only that, but you also worked with them to oppose busing. And, you know, there was a little girl in California who was part of the second class to integrate her public schools, and she was bused to school every day. And that little girl was me.”